Hello?
Hello. Good evening sir. Good evening. Good evening.
Yeah, good evening. Good evening sir.
Good evening.
Uh, 23 people joined till now.
Join the screen.
Okay, so we are in the deep Q learning.
So you can see this paper, uh, last class,
what I had shown you is basically frozen Q
uh, frozen leg problem using deep Q learning.
So today I'm going to show you the
theory from where DQ learning has started and
only thing is I'm going to give you the
justification for that program.
Okay? So let me start now.
Okay, so let me give a brief review of
what is it basically.
So this is a landmark paper.
This paper is called, I will go to that Google and show you.
So you go to Google and just type this.
This 2015, the paper was published.
The paper was started as human level control
through deep reinforcement learning.
So in this paper, this is the first application of the
Deep Q learning to solve a problem
called ARI game.
Ari game is a computer game that will be played
by a computer agent.
It is what is exactly of Ari game.
So, uh, any kind of computer game like Ari
or td,
you can consider any playing cards game, okay?
All of them can be solved by using DQ learning.
You just click on here,
this is the paper that I have showed you here.
They will be charging for subscription.
I have downloaded this from some other source.
So this paper, I'm going
to just give you some brief idea about it just
to give you the explanation of how we use DQ learning
for training by using neur network.
Okay, so,
so you already know what is the Q function.
This is the Q function.
Q function means that what is the value for any agent
to live in a particular state call A
and it has taken an action call A
that relation is given like this, it is a sum
of discounted reward, expected sum of discounted reward,
having committed to a particular action.
A from a initial state call is okay.
And the estimation for
uh, Q function is by using Q learning is
there is equation which uh,
lemme show you the equation.
So this is the equation,
this equation number 16.
Okay? So that is new estimate of Q function
for the state of SK
and AK is going to be updated by the help
of the old estimate plus
a learning rate multiplied by reward plus gamma comma
as a discount factor multiplied by the maximum
of the queue function available in the next state.
Okay? And subtraction with the old estimate.
So this is the model free estimation
of Q learning function, okay?
Now when you go for this learning has to happen
over the neural network.
In that case, what we do is for every application
of neural network, we need to know some kind of, we need
to come up with some kind of cost function
and we have to use the gradient descent learning,
uh, to use a gradient descent learning
for updating the weight of the neural network.
Okay? The cost function is basically
this is the cost function as I have shown you in this case
of your,
yeah, this, this place, this term is called
error, okay?
And the target is this term, okay?
So it means that basically this old estimate of
Q function for the state of sk, we are going
to be closed to this particular term.
That is what our target, okay?
If this, and these are equal Q old
and this particular target is equal, in
that case there is no error.
This will become zero and the Q old will become exactly
equal to Q new, okay?
This will going to be E equal only when there is no error.
So basically this is called target
and the subtraction from target
to your present value is called error.
So naturally the error function used for uh,
deep Q learning is going to be the this
uh, difference between your target
and your current estimate.
Hold to the part of two, that means a square form of
that, okay?
Normally we are using mean squared error all the
time for our neural network.
So we are going to use that thing again here.
So our cost function is this,
this waste part of two
and as we know that we need to make this for every
state action and the next state
and reward that you are obtaining, this will go on for
until you complete a whole episode.
So you take a action at a particular state, you go
to next state, you are receiving a reward again,
in the next state, you take another action.
So this will go on until you complete your episode.
One episode means completion of one full trial.
Like, uh, like you are playing a chase game,
you do not receive any kind
of reward at every intermediate action that you take.
You're going to receive a reward of positive one
or negative one based on whether you have win the game
or you have lost the game.
Based on that, you're going to get the reward.
So reward is available only after you complete one episode.
Okay? So episode means it is a sequence
of state action reward.
Next date, state action, reward next date.
So this this error term you have to calculate
for all the state action reward next date.
So that is why this is called average
by considering of all these thing, look at this.
Is it State action reward and next date.
Sir, what was u ud sir?
There? Okay,
Let just increase the font.
Let me just increase the font.
Yeah. Okay. So UD, I will get, uh, tell you this.
You have already seen the last class.
When I have trained it, I have used two neural network.
One neural network is I am updating
and the other neural network is the target network.
So the target neural network is going to be mm,
containing your completion
of one episodes reward value, okay?
And you have to make a buffer
by containing all of your episodes result.
So that is going to be stored into a replay memory
and that replay memory is denoted as this D.
This D is basically it is defined
already here, look at here.
So it is called memory.
So to perform experience replay,
we store the agent's experience, experiences,
state action reward next date, okay,
this is called experience.
So we are storing the agent experience at every time step T
in a data set called D.
So this D is basically storing off all
of your previous experience.
This D is basically a replay memory from where we're going
to take a sample.
Every sample that you're taking, you have to use that sample
to find out the difference between target
and your current testing it.
Okay? So it is like that
whenever you are using neural network till now,
forget about reinforcement learning.
You are taking a neural network to is,
let's say you are doing it image generation
by using any kind of thing like variation or encode or Jan.
So in that case you provide a input image, you are going
to reconstruct the same image on the output.
So again, it is whatever you are uh, predicting
as your output, okay?
That is a current estimate and whatever real value
provided to you from the data set is called a target.
The difference between target
and the current estimate, take that difference risk report
of two and that this difference has
to be computed over all possible values
of the data point present in your dataset.
So for all possible value, you have this estimate
for one possible, for one particular sample,
you have a target for one particular sample.
One sample means your input dataset
for image generation purpose.
Let's say you are having a data set of around 1000 image
for all of this 1000 image of either same person
or different person, doesn't matter.
For all of these 1000 image, you are going
to reconstruct the same 1000 samples
by using the neural network.
So one sample stands
for one particular person's image, okay?
So like that, this error is computed
for over all the samples inside your
inside in your data set.
So this error has to be minimized.
So in that case, just forget about your reinforcement
learning, let's consider your neural
network kind of knowledge.
In that case, this expectation is computed over
all possible sample present in your data set.
Okay? Here in this case the data set is consisting of
state action reward and next state.
So that is what is the data set containing these entities.
Fine. Now for each one of these
state action reward next step, each one
of these is a one sample like that you have multiple
state action reward next step collection so
that it becomes a whole data set.
So what the data set you are now minimizing this error.
Okay? So that is a job, yes.
So any other thing,
let me just check you if I have not defined anything,
I did not told you before that, so I thank you
for asking the question.
So any other thing I did not define till now is not there
because this part is called your target.
Just it is coming from this particular theory
that we have already learned that the target is this,
the target is this reward plus gamma multiplied by
Q function maximum Q function available for the next date.
Okay, so this and this remaining the same.
That becomes your loss function.
Now how do you do the gradient update for this?
So for gradient, as I told you, I would take the delivery
of this term with respect to theta.
Now look at this part. This is your target value.
This is not depending on your, the
what is depending on your theater is a current estimate.
So when you take this differentiation, this will
be taken one time multiplied by gradient
of this part alone.
That is a current estimate.
Now, gradient of this part, there are lot of
approximation technique.
Every company they are proposing, they're
making a new paper publication based on which they're
coming up with new, new product, okay?
For this deep Q network, I will show you
how to update the new network where it is given in this
step by step process.
Okay? So it is here where does just consider that
uh, this is what is our error term.
This is what is our error term reward plus gamma multiplied
by maximization of our next, uh, the actions
for the next this error term.
And in the paper what they have said is
if the error is going beyond minus one
and one range, then you clip it so
that your error will always be remaining within
minus one and one.
Okay? That is one trick they have applied
for which there is no theoretical justification, okay?
Now under that scenario,
the deep two learning is trained in this manner.
It is an algorithm step. Look at here.
So first is uh, so this DQ learning is known
as DQ learning with experience replay
the experience replay means
you have already collected the previous experience
through which you are training your neural network, okay?
So the experience that that you have already collected,
they become your target of Haus.
That is why it is called experience replay.
So you need to have a reply memory,
just initialize the replace sir replay memory is known as D,
it is denoted as capital D.
Okay? So it is going to contain let capital, a number of
replay reply means state action reward next step, okay?
I mean play means the item of the reply, I'm talking
initialize the queue function
with random weight of neural.
So one neural network will be used for your
your policy network.
It is called the network that you are using for training
and another network is there,
which is called target network.
So you have two deep neural network.
One is the network that you are learning.
Uh, another one is a target neur network. Okay?
So look at it is saying that you have to initialize that
with random weight theta, random weight theta.
And here it says that initialize the target network
with weights of theta minus
theta minus is assigned to theta.
So that means this target network
is copying the weights from the policy network, okay?
That is why there is the assignment operation here. Okay?
Next one is for all the episode episode,
this is the total number of episode that you are going
to count.
One episode means completion of one game.
Suppose you're playing a chess game.
One episode means you are completing your game whether you
are losing or you are winning, you have to use
that particular you to train your network.
Okay? So like that you're going to capital aim number
of episode initialize.
So you're going to initialize your state, okay?
Now within an episode you are going to do
transition states after states.
Okay? So one episode means
you start from your any given state of is not you go
until you finish the game.
Okay? That is the counting of time T is equal
to one to capital T.
So that means within an episode they're going
to take this many, this many state condition.
Now with probability, if silent selected random,
this part is called your silent GRE strategy
means you take a random value that is called il, okay?
You take a random value.
If the random value is more than il,
then you are going to take a random action.
If the random value is less than silent, then you are going
to follow the exploitation strategy.
Exploitation means whatever key function you have learned,
use the best action for that particular state.
So that is your choice of your action
through the Excel GRE status.
So once you have chosen your action, then you are going to
also chosen the action.
You are going to see a next date, you're going
to observe a next date and the reward
that you're receiving, okay?
So that is your next date, that is st plus one
and your reward will be something like RT plus one.
Okay? And every time you get a new state
new reward, now you check whether the new state
is a terminal state or not.
If it is a terminal state, then set the target value to be
the reward that you are receiving.
Look at here. Okay? So the before that there is one thing.
Uh, so you need to fetch the samples from your reply memory.
Now, once you have made all of your replay memory ready,
now we have to fetch the samples from reply memory.
So what you're going
to do is this is called sample random mini batch
of transition from your deployment model D.
This this step, okay?
So this is going to be helpful for you setting your target.
Now you have taken a next state transition based
on the action you have chosen.
So the next state is a
uh, terminal state.
In that case, whatever reward available, you take
that reward, okay?
If the next state is not a terminal state, in
that case you have to use this as your target value this
as your target value, this target value you're choosing from
where this target value you are choosing from
your policy neural network.
Okay? Now this is your target
value that you are choosing
and you have already a real target that is coming out
of your deployment model.
You have to find the difference between them.
The difference is going to be helpful
for doing your back progression of the neur network.
Okay? So this is the uh, algorithm
and I have last class.
I have shown you that this program
is made out of that only.
And look at, we have a class called DQN,
which we are just having a
simple linear layers, okay?
I have only one hidden layer, um, connecting
to the output state.
The output state, sir, all possible actions.
So I have only four actions
and at the frozen layer left, right up and down.
Then I am going to use a forward function to send the input,
get the output from the neur network.
So we have a PL memory for D play memory, we have a
utility function available from
Python is called dq, okay?
And the size of the deep play memories, you have
to use it from your variable.
We have set the max length variable to be
deep play memory size, the max
memory size, cell memory size is,
yeah, so here, deploy memory size setting.
Okay, so we have thousand number of samples
that we are going to store it here
and we have this sample function.
The sample function will fetch
a random sample from the deployment mode, okay?
Then we have a frozen leg class.
This class inside which we are defining our training,
your learning rate.
This learning rate is basically this, this part,
this alpha part, okay?
Discount factor is this gamma part
network sync rate.
So this is the time interval
after which we are going to copy our weight
of the policy network to the target network.
Look at here we are going to do
every C step reset.
Q hat is equal to Q. What is Q hat?
Q hat is given here?
Look at it is a target network weight Q hat.
Okay, this you can see this is the Q hat symbol.
So this Q hats is a target network.
So I am going to set the weight of the Q hat
by the weight of the Q network.
What is Q network? The Q network is your policy network.
Okay? So
after this 10 times steps, I'm going to copy the weight
of the policy network to the target network.
You'll see that there is a condition coming up.
I will show you we are going to do the sync up, right?
So see here the step count.
So copy policy network to target network
after a certain number of split.
So we have a step count here.
This takes care of this condition, see steps we counting
if the step count is greater than network syn grid network,
syn grid, we have six of value for 10.
You can fix it any other value, okay?
Just for reducing the any time I have made it to be.
So the step count is more than the network sync grid.
Then you do this loading of the weight
from the policy network to the target network
and then you reset that stick count, okay?
So that is used for this thing
and uh, okay,
so now within this pro
and deck class you have this mini batch size.
Mini batch size means that
you have a a replay memory size whose polymer is 1000
outta 1000 sample.
Randomly you'll face 32 sample over which you're going
to train your neural network
because it is a batch gradient descent.
Okay? Then you are going
to define this loss function is called means square loss,
your optimizer we have 30 it to be none.
However we'll set it this optimizer to Adam
in the subsequent function called training.
Okay? You have these actions possible LD audio,
okay, left, right, down and up.
So first is you have
whenever, so training means
this part, this part.
So look at the first outer loop is
iterating over the number of episode
and the inner loop is iterating over the condition
that you are not into here termination status,
which is basically this loop
first on first fall loop is number of episode
that we have shown over here.
Second loop is over the number
of state transition that you are making.
So we are contain whether you have reached
the terminal state or not.
If you have reached terminal state, then don't do this.
Uh, state transition again. Okay?
So inside this follow loop we are
choosing the action based on al GRE stage.
Okay? So
that is a condition you just do a random number sampling.
If the random number is less than al, then you go for it.
Random action. NV action Sam Action
space is random action.
If this number is bigger than il,
so it is basically this value is decaying over the total
number of episode that you are having, say at every episode
value decay decay.
So at some point of time this random value
will be greater than il.
At that point of time, the action
that you're choosing it should be coming from
your policy network.
Okay? So you're taking action from your policy network.
Now you may ask what is this function analysis function is
for encoding your state.
Your state is basically 0 2 15. It is a four plus four.
So in the input of your neural network,
you just provide the state number
value starting from 0 2 15.
So that will be encoded in a one hot encoding which is taken
care by this function.
This is basically one hot encoding.
So this function will return a vector of length 16 out
of which only one element will be one based on the
particular state the uh,
agent is, is living in.
Okay? So you are returning a vector from this function
that vector are feeding to this policy network.
This policy will network will return anywhere
action possible at that particular state
and you are choosing the maximum
value of the action.
So you have only four possible action out of which
the providing who out
of which actions put in the maximum value, you are choosing
that storing it as your action, okay?
Under that action now you are causing a state transition
by the help ofb step function.
As a result you get a new state, you get a reward,
you get a state called either termination
or truncated like that
and you append this into your reply memory.
So whatever new state you're observing,
you append them into your reply memory, okay?
Then you state your current state will be the new state
increasing your step count, okay?
The step count will be useful only for checking.
If you have gone beyond the, the step count has gone
beyond the network synchron, then you have to do this job.
Okay? And what about your,
this memory happening that you are doing?
For every experience that you have collected,
you have to keep a check.
That is the length of the memory
has become more than mini batch size.
In that case, you can fetch mini batch size number
of samples to set your target neural networks action values.
Okay? Provided that not only you cross the limit
of your mini best size, also you must check that you,
you have some positive reward that you have collected.
If you have no positive reward, then there is no point
of doing training because most
of the cases you are giving reward
to be other positive one or zero.
Okay? So in that case you take a random sample from this
memory, from this memory random sample
and then you call this function called optimize.
This optimize takes the policy neural network
to target neural network
and the samples that you have got it from here, okay?
Now get into this optimized function.
So here is optimized function, you are getting your number
of states from the policy neural network.
Now look at this current Q list, target Q list.
So this current Q list and target Q list, this is happen
and this list is basically it.
It is going to be getting the same length
as the total number of sample present in your mini batch.
Okay? So you are going to get your,
your current estimate of your Q function.
You are already, you are prefilled
with this target estimate, okay?
This prefilled of target estimate so far we have not done,
we have not set it, we are now going to set it.
So within the mini batch you have mini batch means it is
collection of your experience.
So state action next state reward
termination condition, okay?
If you have encountered a termination state, in
that case your target value is going to be the reward.
This is coming from this condition.
Look at here, if the episode terminates in that case
your reward you are going to be getting from the next date.
Reward itself, this is this condition.
Otherwise just disable the gradient descent.
Just take apply this formula.
That reward plus of alpha multiplied by
this is your alpha.
They have not considered, they have directly gone into
this, okay?
Uh, so this part,
this part is encoded over here.
Reward plus reward for the next state.
If the next state is not a terminal state in
that case reward
for the next state plus gamma multiplied by this thing.
Now look at this one.
This is Q hat.
Q hat means what is Q hat?
Q hat is here. Target network.
Okay, so look at I'm using target,
target network here in the target network.
I'm passing on the new state
because I'm getting into a state called SK plus one.
I'm getting into new state called SK plus one. Okay?
So it is this under the new state
all possible action possible that will be returned here
and take the maximum out of them.
So it is a maximum value we're taking. Okay?
So that is the target value we have. Got it.
And what is your current current Q, the current estimation
of your Q function that you're
getting from your policy network.
So policy network will return for the same state,
it'll return the Q function well.
So just append those Q function value.
This is happening over 1 1 1 sample
because this is happening for a
follow-up within a minibatch.
Okay? So
for every sample you are collecting that
and then you are appending this list
for those individual value of current Q.
So your target Q hell is basically coming from your
this target DQN for the current state.
Okay? So target Q
for the particular action is getting in this
value this, this target.
Look at this will be returning a area four elements
for every action.
What is the value for that?
So for the, this will return area
four element inside that the particular element
which is having a maximum value is going
to be saved from this variable called target.
What is this target? This target is filled up from here
by using this formula.
Okay? So
now you are having this target Q list, which is a
collection of all the target values.
After that we are going to call this loss function
over the current estimate and your target value, okay?
And then you follow the same procedure
of your gradient descent, set the optimizer,
all the gradient with zero, then do the lost or backward
and optimize it.
One step of your optimizing, okay?
This is how it goes on and the results.
Last class I had already shown you this is
what result that project.
So last class I did not explain you why you,
we are taking two neural network
and all this class I have shown you the reason behind it.
Okay?
So you have any question now
that will go through the code then we can come up.
Ah, yes, it is not possible for anyone to yes, understand
how many like that actually this code is not also correct.
Uh, I have made it with some, some
that target values are a correct value
for now, whatever target value I provide,
at least I can train the network.
Okay? So this code is available at DQ
network open ai
DQN,
GitHub, DQN.
Okay? It is available here itself
Available here itself.
You can run it from here.
So I'll just give you this link.
This is for what? This is not for dq open AI baselines.
So if you can share your CoLab notebook
because you have shown us
and you must have changed something and not,
Uh, mine one is not a correct one.
I am still changing
actually for you, you are doing only M intake for you.
These codes are not required for those who are interested
to PhD for them and those who are doing PhD codes
or for them also, it is not going to be that much useful
company project.
I'm sure you'll not have any liberty
to do any coding on this.
International learning Liberty means you will not have
any scope to do that.
I'll share this link. This I think,
yeah, this is buffer with this thing.
This is quite good.
I will send it
to you by email.
I will send it to you because chat, uh,
it'll be lost again, right?
Yes, yes Sir. Cart pull thing.
This replay buffer, everything is done over here also.
Um, just to kind,
because the next class also will go through itself the same
I'll in the next class I will teach you
with cart pole agent.
Yes sir, that will be better.
Okay, so after, basically
after completion of cart pole, I'll get into DDQN.
It's called double Q network.
What is your, lemme send it to me
by mail itself now
after DDQN,
Uh, This Q learning will get, okay,
D-D-Q-N-D-D-Q-N is called dwelling Q network.
After that we'll start call policy gradient.
Do you have any more question You can ask me?
You have time now,
Sir. Do you have code
for taxi problem also?
Taxi problem? I have to check it out.
It's available from GitHub also.
Okay, so I'll check that then. Mm.
The DQN is basically based
on two Q network.
One is the policy network and other one is target network.
Okay? Once we get into, uh,
policy gradient,
and you will see that
there is something called actor critic network in
that also we require two network.
One is the actor network, other is critic, network
actor critic means you as a actor,
you are taking some action
and all of your actions are going
to be evaluated by a critic.
A critic may be teacher, it may be expert in that domain.
Okay? So if you don't have any question,
you can close the today's class then
how many people are participating Today's class?
30 18 total. 38?
Yes. Total enrollment is
Uh, I think around 90.
90 90. Okay. Nine zero.
Yes. Nine zero. But this
Is not a mandatory course.
So maybe some people for healthcare or something?
Yeah, healthcare is around 10 of them.
And, uh, depending, should be in this only.
Yeah, the majority would be here.
Oh. But normally we see 50 50 Pfizer,
but today it's less probably because it's uh,
Festival.
Oh, first I forgot today,
Santi is there today, tomorrow, sir. Birthday. Ah,
Yes. But
for us, there is no holiday tomorrow
for those who are in, uh, there's a seven day holiday
for school and college.
Yes, for, uh, Bangalore. Those one software.
There's no holiday. It's
A holiday. Tomorrow's holiday,
sir. Ours is optional.
Optional, okay. Depends even I don't have holiday.
Some companies might give, some companies don't.
Okay. In
Chennai holiday or not
Sunday day, Friday holiday, sir, don't worry.
Al Ngal is a Friday day, Friday festival.
It's all Friday days will be holiday
For private sector. Also.
Private sector, they give two
days, two days to three days.
Okay. And
One day tomorrow only holiday. One
Only one day. Is that okay?
Private? Yeah.
One day Government.
Government. If you need more holiday, then uh,
we have to shift to Chi.
Actually
No, only one day.
Yeah.
Five day means one week you we
Government will give the class holiday.
Yeah, yeah. Government will be five
days. Five days off. Five,
Five days. Okay. During
that time.
And also the movie,
ah, mayor movie get get released
before the any festival. Yes, yes,
Yes. Already. Already
released a gog. It's become a flop.
So nobody's going for movies in Sierra.
Oh, is it? But when I was in Chennai, I had seen that
many people are going to the morning show
movie morning show.
No, forget about early morning shows.
Are they go at five o'clock, four o'clock at all.
I had seen that in my own eyes.
I have, when I was going to office, I saw
that when the bus is stopping near to the movie theater,
full bus got empty.
Sir. When, when, when movie
Was released on Friday and Morning show itself, people are
rushing to see the movie.
That's common in, if it doesn't happen,
only you should be surprised if it happens.
Very common.
I was surprised. Uh, for me it is a, uh,
I I'm a shocking thing.
I can never think that the morning people can go
for seeing movie.
Did you experience it, sir? No. Huh? Did you experience
Read it?
No. Did you have any Experience on that?
No. No. No movie? No.
I had, when I was in Chennai, I used to go to movie theater
for some NDI movie, an English movie.
But, uh, those were basically Tamil movie
that was talking about.
Yes, Yes. Back in 2000 4, 5, 6.
I was talking about Where were you in,
where were you in China, sir?
2004. I was also there during that time I was living in, uh,
POL called,
That's the most happening place, sir.
It's some, a lot of theaters around me. So
You are talking about Kamala theater then?
I guess I forgot the names actually later I came
to know there are shooting centers. Yeah,
A city. Yeah, it
just, it just around the
Cisco office actually.
The site data, that site studio and all the service.
Ah, actually I was forties only that one. Yeah. Yeah.
And uh, uh, at that time, this one, uh, I,
I still remember the song Kaka movie.
What is that? Syria. So
You should, you should experience that.
The fi You, you should have gone for early morning show.
You should have that experience of, uh, the huge fan that
Is Theresia was there, right? He's still
There. Yeah. Yeah. Was
there,
So that movie, I thought of going to that movie,
but somehow I lost the interest.
But the songs are good.
I, for me it is a eyeopening thing.
That movie creates so much in especially Tam
and uh,
AKA is not that much high.
No, no bag.
You can see that in bag basically only big,
big like es movie and, uh, Shiraz movie.
Yeah. Off, yeah. Offload this
and this guy that, that that hero
Ception team, uh,
Only these two people have pulled the crowd.
But apart from that aka is not a big crowd cooler
in film thing.
But uh, I mean is still good.
Their movies are, uh, it's a big buzz.
Although the content is, I don't like,
but the way they create the hype is too much.
Okay. So if you have any, uh,
I hope this course is quite difficult.
Course, it is quite a new course.
I mean, it is not going to have any intersection
with any one of the course that you have gone through so far
or even any one of the courts
that in future you are going to gone through.
So, so this course is going to be quite difficult for any,
uh, for BTech student itself is quite difficult for you.
Those who are working, you are spending only one hour
in a week for you.
It's going to be a Himalayan task that I understand,
but uh, I'm taking the course in a very light manner.
Only one example I teach,
or two days I teach only one example.
Uh, after I complete this, uh, PO policy gradient,
then I will show a real example of
how Chad g PT is using this or training of them.
Although I cannot train them
because it requires around
64 G-B-F-G-P-U Ram,
which I will not be able to get it even from cloud.
Also, it is too much cost,
but I'll show you, I'll tell you the basic flow
of the process after I complete the policy in gradient.
Okay?
Yeah, sure. So, so policy gradient will be, uh,
last, uh, step,
Uh, last after deep Q learning.
It is, uh, only one part is remaining policy gradient.
But again, for exam it'll not be important
because policy gradient is ma I think it is going to be,
uh, like 10 times difficulty than
whatever equation you have seen it earlier.
Okay? Not 10 times, it'll 20 times difficult equations
that you're going to see it in policy gradient.
That's how I'll be excluding them from the, uh,
So what I built the ba till down the basic equation.
The other equation which are derived is from
bellman equation only, sir.
Ah, yes. Most of the equation are coming out of
that bellman equation.
Yes, yes. Beman has the
biggest contribution is this domain.
All the, all the things
that is revolving in the AI is now revolving
around reinforcement learning
and behind reinforcement learning.
The biggest contribution came from Billman.
And another person from whom the AI domain has actually
started his cons.
His name is Markov.
Although Mark has never got Nobel Prize
in Markoff the first time Markoff,
he has not got a Nobel Prize
Like Trump, sir.
No, no. Trump is a different thing.
Nobel Peace Prize is a different,
Nobel Peace Prize is a political tool.
Okay? If you just go through some past history
of 50 years, the person
who has voiced the award against Vietnam US president,
he got Nobel Peace Prize.
Okay? Can you name the person?
Uh, not sure sir.
Sorry. Richard Nixon.
No, No.
Another name Turman? No, Truman.
Truman is in the second World War time.
So I guess Vietnam was done in that time only.
No, no. Vietnam 70.
Okay, You Secretary of State, Ronald,
Uh, somebody said Kissinger.
Who is that?
I just checked this It and says Hendrik Kissinger.
He's still alive. He is,
his age is somewhere in the now 98, 99.
He's still alive. Okay. He, he got Nobel Peace Prize.
So it is like that. So Donald Trump get some,
Nobel Peace Prize is a political tool,
but what I'm standing is for AI in 2024, this, uh,
uh, Jeffrey Hinton, Jeffrey Hinton,
and Hop Field, these are the two person who got Nobel Prize,
a Nobel Prize in physics.
Their contribution in ai
for which they have got Nobel Prize in physics, okay?
Because AI is not a, a recognized track inside Nobel domain,
but the person for whom this AI domain has got the theories,
the Markov, but he has not got Nobel Prize.
He, he invented Markov chain in the time of 1939,
and he's basically Russia Norwegian person born in Austria.
There are many people who have been born in Eastern Europe.
Most of them had a origin in Russia.
So Markov is one such person, even in future.
Also, he has died in future.
Also, he is not going to get Nobel Prize
because he is from Russia.
It is like that.
Okay? So we can wind up the class today?
Yeah, sure, sir. Thank you, sir.
Okay, thank you. Good. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.